# tfg_ros_simulation
Minimal ROS2 configuration to operate an autonomous mobile robot on simulation. This repo employs CoppeliaSIM as simulator.
It is designed for TFG and TFM students of University of Málaga.

# CoppeliSIM: Interface with ROS2
### PreRequisites
1. Install Coppelia Simulator (from the official webpage)
2. Launch CoppeliaSim from terminal (-h => headless)
    - Check that the ROS2 plugin was loaded (successfully).
    - Plugins are loaded when CoppeliaSim is launched (only on startup). 
    - Make sure to source the ROS2 environment prior to running CoppeliaSim (see .bashrc).
    - The plugin is now ready to be used.
    
### ERROR loading Plugin: Manual Compilation Needed (only once)
If the plugin cannot be loaded, then you should recompile it by yourself. Its code is open source and in this repo we provide a copy of it in the pkg "sim_ros2_interface". You will only need to compile it once, after that, you can add a "COLON_IGNORE" to avoid recompilations. Follow this steps:
- The pluggin is generated by compiling the "/sim_ros2_interface" pkg, using the standard "colcon build". Be sure there is not  a "COLCON_IGNORE" file before compilation.
- (optional) Edit `meta/interfaces.txt` if you need to include additional ROS2 msgs to be supported by Coppelia.
- Install xsltproc:
    sudo apt install xsltproc 
- Export root_dir variable (can be added to .bashrc to make this permanent):
    export COPPELIASIM_ROOT_DIR=~/path/to/coppeliaSim/folder
- Compile with colcon build (in case of errors, try the following)
    ulimit -s unlimited #otherwise compilation might freeze/crash
    
    colcon build --packages-select sim_ros2_interface --symlink-install --cmake-args -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
- Add the "COLCON_IGNORE" file to avoid further compilations
- Copy the just compiled library to Coppelia root directory
    ros_ws/build/sim_ros2_interface/libsimExtROS2.so -->copy to --> CopeliaRoot Directory
- Launch again Coppelia from terminal and check that the plugin is loaded when CoppeliaSim starts

### ERROR Compiling the Interface
- The sim_ros2_interface pkg requires a large amomunt of RAM memory to be compiled. In Virtual Machine (VM) this can lead to errors like: c++: fatal error: Killed signal terminated program cc1plus
- To solve this, ensure the VM is provided with a enough memory (at least 8Gb in total, between RAM and SWAP, are necessary
- If you cannot locate more RAM for the VM, here there are instructions to enlarge the SWAP partition. Concretely this example creates a 4Gb SWAP partition
  1. sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/swapfile2 bs=1024 count=4194304
  2. sudo chmod 600 /swapfile2
  3. sudo mkswap /swapfile2
  4. sudo swapon /swapfile2
  
  Complete instructions here: https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-add-swap-space-on-ubuntu-20-04/
  
### ToDo
- check nav2_recoveries for Humble (not yet available)
- Check GetParams from Coppelia. Right now can only read params from node sim_ros2_interface.
